# JavaScript30

Hi!

These are my solutions to Wes Bos’ JavaScript30 Vanilla JS Challenges at [javascript30.com](https://javascript30.com)

You can view my completed challenges here in this Codepen collection: https://codepen.io/collection/nrjNvY/


## Thoughts

At the end of each challenge I am creating a note with any thoughts about the challenge. These notes may include new things I learned, problems I faces and how I solved them, or whatever thoughts I may have.

### 01 JavaScript Drum Kit – 08.25.2017

One minor thing I felt was missing from the drum kit was the ability to activate any of the drums by clicking on the pad. I solved this by adding an event listener to the click event and setting `playSound` as the callback. Then I modified `playSound` slightly to find the correct key code whether the event was a keydown or click.

In the CSS, I added `pointer-events: none;` to each of the text elements inside the drum pad to prevent them from interrupting the click on the drum pad.


### 02 JS and CSS Clock - 08.26.2017

I started this exercise without looking to see how Wes Bos does it in his video.

My initial solution was to use CSS keyframe animations generated by the JS once on page load. The JavaScript would get the starting clock hands positions from the current time and generate a CSS keyframe animation for each hand based. This method would have had a possible performance advantage because JS would only be executed once on page load instead of every second using a `setInterval` function.

Unfortunately, I discovered that my solution wouldn't keep time accurately because it relied on the the CSS `animation-duration` property to tell each clock hand how much time to take to do a full rotation.

I ended up using a `setInterval` function update the `transform` property of each hand every second based on the current time.

### 03 CSS Variables - 08.27.2017

I thought the project from the video was a bit boring so I decided to continue with the CSS and JS Clock and build a few controls to customize the appearance of the clock.

I made these controls:
1. A range slider to let the user change the roundness of the clock
2. A radio button set to let the user change themes

This was pretty straightforward. First I defined the CSS custom properties, designed both themes, and made sure that they worked if I changed the values of the custom properties. Then I wrote the markup for the controls. Then in the JavaScript, I selected the inputs elements and the root element containing my custom properties. I placed the themes in a JavaScript object, and attached event listeners to the input elements. From that point, it was as simple as looking up the properties and values in the themes object then using `style.setProperty` to change the value of the custom properties on the root element.

### 04 Array Cardio Day 1 – 08.29.2017

The first few of these array methods exercises were pretty easy, but I started struggling a bit towards the end, especially on the last problem. I cheated a bit to see how Wes did it. I had never used `Array.reduce` to reduce an array to an object before so I hadn't thought about that. That was pretty neat seeing how reduce can be used to build up an object, rather than simply reduce down to a single value. Reminds me to think outside the box a bit (an object is a single value in the sense that it is a single object);
